```
how is everybody  so I'm here to speak about
decentralization  and why it matters  web free promises us a
decentralized  future where we the consumer can own  parts of the
network we participate in  with this ownership we're told comes
democratize access participation  influence and opportunity  why then
does Jack Dorsey  write on Twitter you don't own web3 the  Venture
capitalists and their limited  partners do it will never Escape their
incentives it's ultimately a centralized  entity with a different
label know what  you're getting into  consider Bitcoin  the most well-
known Fair launch  blockchain protocol it had no Ico no  pre-mine no
VC company backing and no  Founders funds  when pressed by one of
address and  Horowitz Partners to embrace chains  other than Bitcoin
Jack replied saying  it's critical we focus our energy on  truly
secure and resilient Technologies  owned by the massive people not
individuals or institutions only that  foundation will provide for the
applications you allude to  remember this as we'll come back to it  in
a bit  though a large part of the mining power  that Provisions the
Bitcoin blockchain  has become centralized the nature of its  Origins
differentiate it from chains  like ethereum Solana cardano Avalanche
polka dot Etc in the eyes of regulators  who it seems just now
starting to play  their cards  blockchains like these that are not
fair  Lawns create a power of symmetry between  the early funders and
the rest of the  users these imbalances can lead to  manipulation
manipulation of the network  and so upsets and undermines the promise
we began with and now takes us back to a  place where centralized
Powers control  the network  so why does this matter and why should
we care you might ask history has shown  that when an individual or
group of  individuals has the opportunity to act  in their own self-
interest it's usually  a matter of time before they do imagine  being
a Russian citizen right now your  government has decided to go to war
you may or may not agree with this  decision regardless you and your
fellow  citizens have been cut off from global  banking services
including the majority  of online transactions  well let's look
further east the Chinese  social credit system rates people of  China
on a range of metrics Financial  Credit worthiness judicial
enforcement  commercial transaction trustworthiness  societal
trustworthiness and government  Integrity by gathering and sharing
data  curating blacklists and red list and  administering punishments
sanctions and  Rewards  should your beliefs or values differ  from
those of the current governments or  leading representative your
ability to  travel gain employment access Finance or  enter into
contracts could all be  affected potentially leading you to  being
marginalized from society  nfts  nfts are said to give users the
ability  to own objects which can be art photos  codes music texts
game objects  credentials government rights access  passes or whatever
else people dream up  nfts exist on top of blockchains like  ethereum
and almost all apps use either  inferior or Alchemy to interact with
these blockchains in fact even when you  connect a wallet like
metamask to an app  it interacts  with the blockchain Via these two
apps  neither the DAP nor your wallet actually  verifies the
blockchain state or the  authenticity of the responses the  results
aren't even signed so you can  later validate them  so essentially
what's happening is the  app asks hey what's the output of this  view
function on this smart contract and  then Alchemy or inferior responds
with  an output  that the app then renders  furthermore metamask
reuses the same  connections for all your accounts in  your wallet so
if you're managing  multiple accounts in a wallet to  maintain some
kind of identity  separation these companies know they're  linked
unfortunately a wallet has to run on a  mobile device or in a browser
but  ethereum and most other blockchains have  not been designed to
interact with a  mobile device or your browser  so there's all this
work that's gone  into creating Fancy blockchains with  trustless
distributed consensus  mechanisms but virtually all clients  access it
simply by trusting the outputs  of these two companies without any
further verification  imagine if every time you interacted  with a
website on Google Chrome your  request first went to Google before
being routed to the destination and back  it doesn't seem like the
best privacy  solution yeah that's exactly what  happens with ethereum
today  all right traffic is obviously public  on the blockchain but
these companies  also have this ability to almost all  read requests
from almost all users in  almost all dabs most people when they  think
of nfts they think of images and  digital art but nfts generally don't
store the data on chain it would be way  too expensive instead most
nfts contain  a URL that points to the data was pretty  shocking to
learn about nft standards is  that there's no hash commitment for the
data located at the URL this means that  for many of the nfts on
popular  marketplaces  being sold for a hundred thousand  sometimes
millions of dollars the URL  just points to a virtual private server
somewhere running Apache anyone with  access to that machine anyone
who buys a  domain name in the future or anyone who  compromises that
machine can change the  image title description or other  information
for the nft to whatever  they'd like at any time regardless of
whether they own the token or not  there's nothing in the nft spec
that  tells you what the image should be or  even allows you to
confirm what the  correct image is  furthermore on the subject of
decentralization openc have the  Providence to remove any nft or
listing  they believe violates their terms of  service suffice to say
if your nft is  removed from openc it also disappears  from your
wallet it doesn't functionally  matter that your nft is indelibly on
the  blockchain somewhere because your wallet  and increasingly
everything else in the  ecosystem is just using the openc API to
display nfts  it does seem that most participants  either don't know
or don't particularly  care that these Dynamics are at Play  it seems
to have little negatively felt  effect on the velocity of the
ecosystem  expanding this might seem that  decentralization is not
actually of  immediate practical or pressing  importance to the
majority of crypto  users or nft buyers what they actually  care about
is where the money is or put  another way number goes up  so what's
the solution  imagine a worldwide Network as scalable  and it's
accessible as today's internet  capable of processing Financial
transactions in dollars Euros Bitcoin  ethereum or even custom
currencies or  Auto rebalancing multi-condary baskets  and ensures all
currencies are accounted  for flawlessly  it facilitates the complete
Safety and  Security of value the verification of  all real world
actions and the ability  for people to present a verifiable
reflection of the sum of their lifetime  experiences it facilitates
Equity of  opportunity for all where kindness can  be exchanged
without fear of fraud or  humiliation and enables the values votes
and voices of a community to be  immutably expressed and secured by
that  community  all data is verified private protected  and provable
enabling exchanges of  self-evident truths and all exchanges  can be
certified smart and secured  without the need for to rely on costly
intermediaries  the network is available to all to all  as our state-
of-the-art tours and is  designed such that it can be cheaply and
easily secured on personal computers on  mobile phones  this protocol
is called Veris which  means truth  the lead Dev was one of 22
technical  fellows in the history of Microsoft  their highest ranking
uh Engineers was  responsible for writing the kernel for  Windows 95
architecting and founding.net  Microsoft's virtual machine and Java
among other Technologies still being  used to this day  he designed
Varys as a solution to the  valence surveillance State we saw
emerging in the U.S and elsewhere  various public blockchain or pbass
sorry public blockchain as a service  enables anyone to create their
own fully  fractal interoperable cross-chain  blockchains or tokens
without the need  for technical programming ability  think of how much
money you could save  not needing costly smart contracts uh  smart
contractors or audits so these  blockchains are endowed with  self-
sovereign IDs the ability to create  and control digital identities
that  correlate with real life activities like  loans kyc reputation
scores voting Etc  full privacy capabilities through ZK  snarks and
zero knowledge proofs a free  free Marketplace so you can trade nfts
or any other data without paying any  middlemen totally peer-to-peer
full  cross chain compatibility with root  cryptographically secure
bridges on both  sides so uh for example the metadata for  your nfts
travels with them and you  avoid things like smart contract risk  and
buggy Bridges  uh G5 and automated market makers this  is all at the
protocol level designed to  eliminate smart contract risk front  money
Mev so it's fair and safe for all  participants they have a proof of
power  consensus mechanism which is 50 proof of  stake 50 proof of
work  not only does this provide incredible  security but it's also
designed to be  accessible to everyone uh it's Asic  resistant because
it's optimized for  CPUs so it can be run on a mobile phone  or a home
computer  it's also very energy efficient which  again allows it to be
run on a mobile  phone  um and there's no lookup periods for the
staking portion of the mechanism so so  Quantum ready for when the
quantum  threat or quantum computers come online  so in short varus's
Fair launched layer  zero protocol that eliminates the smart  contract
vulnerabilities that cost  change like ethereum binance smart chain
that we just heard about Solana Phantom  polygon and Avalanche
cumulatively  billions of dollars in hacks each year  by integrating
smart transactions into  the blockchain protocol layer so a  different
approach to Smart contracts  Ferris ensures that every d5lp exchange
transaction token launch blockchain  launch cross-chain transaction
Etc is as  secure as a standard provable coin to  coin transfer  in
today's world free digital services  mean you the user are the
products  your data is being harvested and sold to  advertisers the
state is also attracted  to governments looking to extract value  from
its populations and with the  exponential rise of artificial
intelligence and machine learning the  data gets further processed
stored and  shared as this data becomes co-mingled  with a person's
biometric data  interacting with the virtual reality or  the metaverse
is literally like  strapping yourself into the Matrix  remember what
Jack Dorsey said earlier  in the speech it's critical we focus our
energy on truly secure and resilient  Technologies owned by the mass
of people  not individual not individuals or  institutions only that
foundation will  provide for the applications you allude  to  varus is
a solution that brings about  truly decentralized blockchain
technology and enables people to own  their own data and decide where
and how  it is shared this includes the ability  to prove that data
whether it's an  identity a financial transaction or  otherwise
independent of governments  Banks or other intermediaries  just
finishing out I want to live in a  world where people's human rights
are  just as relevant in the digital space as  they are anywhere else
and all human  beings can enjoy freedom of thought  movement Justice
and Liberty join me in  bringing about and realizing the Utopia  of
web3 I'll be around if anyone wants  to learn more you can join the
discords  there's 15 000 people currently in it  and this is the real
deal you can build  your own blockchain uh your own tokens  basically
at near free with  state-of-the-art tools thanks very much  pretty
good  [Music]
```
