this is gonna be a fun video because
avalanche is such a new protocol that
one day we might watch this video in the
future and realize how crazy it was for
us to explain it so early avalanche
hardly has any promotional material just
nerdy documentation and lengthy white
papers lucky for you that is exactly
what we are into welcome to whiteboard
crypto the number one youtube channel
for crypto education and here we explain
topics of the cryptocurrency world using
analogies stories and examples so that
you can easily understand them in this
video we are going to explain what the
avalanche network is what makes it
different than literally any other
crypto application i've seen and at the
end you'll learn the secrets of the avax
token including exactly why the price
recently went from sixteen dollars to
fifty five dollars in two weeks let's
dig in
to understand the avalanche network we
first need an economics lesson about
their unique proprietary consensus model
first of all you need to know that the
consensus model people used for a long
long time was called practical byzantine
fault around the 1980s was when this
thing took off and was essentially a
computer science algorithm that helped a
bunch of things come together and make a
conclusion based on the information that
they had next up around 2009 we had the
start of bitcoin which introduced the
nakamoto era of consensus nakamoto
created and shared the proof of work
mechanism which we have an entire video
about but is in many ways better than
the old byzantine model finally in 2020
avalanche launched their avalanche
consensus model network this thing is
complicated so i'm going to attempt to
give you a high level understanding of
it without upsetting any of their
engineers now basically the network
follows proof of stake pretty closely
but it does have a few unique
differences first off the avalanche
model uses a form of sub-sampled voting
this means that there's a large group of
people who volunteer to participate in
the network and get randomly asked to
check things to put it in their own
words small random subsets of validators
are asked whether they think the
transactions would be accepted or
rejected after it is initially thought
to be valid something called network
gossip happens where the participants
exchange information back and forth back
and forth and continue to validate the
transactions or deny them one of the
benefits of this is that contrary to
proof of work and proof of stake
mechanisms it doesn't matter how many
nodes there are how many people there
are in the system consensus will be
reached within a certain desired time
frame also due to some technicalities
this consensus model is actually much
more difficult to attack unlike bitcoin
where you would need 51 of all the
computers to attack the network or
ethereum 2.0 where you would need 51 of
all the staked tokens to attack the
network with avalanche you would need to
control up to 80 percent of the network
to perform an attack let's get on to the
important stuff though this model allows
for up to 4 500 transactions per second
per subnet and has a finality clock of
less than three seconds now we'll
explain what subnetting is later because
it is really important but right now you
just need to know that each subnet can
process up to 4500 transactions per
second and if you have a thousand
subnets well you can do a lot of
transactions compare this to bitcoin
with seven transactions a second in an
hour-long finality and even ethereum
pales to compare with 15 transactions a
second and a 10 minute finality before
we continue the finality of clicking the
like button is pretty much immediate so
if you do us a big favor to support our
hard work on creating these unique high
value explainer videos it would mean a
lot to us so now that i've basically
explained how the avalanche consensus
model works let's get into the real
thing where avalanche shines it's
network infrastructure so first off
avalanche has one primary network that
network has actually three built-in
blockchains with it that's right
avalanche just isn't one blockchain it
is at least three but we'll get to that
in a second so the first blockchain in
the network is called the x chain this
is the part specifically for creation
management and transaction of tokens on
the network now the engineers would tell
us in technicality this is actually
based on a dag which is a unique form of
a consensus model unlike a blockchain
but it is out of the scope of this video
i just thought it would be interesting
to add that the avalanche team is not
married to one protocol next up we have
the c chain so the c chain is
specifically for smart contracts it is
actually an exact copy of the ethereum
virtual machine so that way you can
instantly copy and paste and start using
ethereum dapps on the avalanche network
in my opinion they were very smart with
this allowing developers to move their
projects over without doing much work
this chain also uses something called
the snowman protocol which i'll talk
about in a minute so we have the x chain
for transactions we have the c chain for
smart contracts next we have the p chain
or the platform chain and it is
specifically for management of the
subnets it also coordinates all the
validator nodes and the staking
mechanism now this brings us to a very
big and very important question what are
subnets well each subnet is a new
network in the avalanche ecosystem
that's right this system is scalable in
so many ways let me try to explain
subnets each subnet can have multiple
blockchains just like the primary
avalanche network secondly each
blockchain in a subnet can have its own
consensus model now from what i've heard
this means if you're creating one you
can pick proof of work or proof of stake
depending on your needs another really
cool thing is that each blockchain can
have its own vm or virtual machine you
can copy the ethereum virtual machine
just like the primary chain did another
important thing about these subnets that
i didn't really understand at first is
that they can be permissionless or
permissioned this means that they can
either be public or private blockchains
now you might start to understand the
purpose of this if you are a government
and you want the full power of a
blockchain without developing the
groundwork you can just add a subnet in
avalanche's ecosystem maybe you're a
government or maybe you're a business or
an organization or some other protocol
needing to use these very powerful tools
without wanting to actually invest in
something new in avalanche you can even
change the rules for each blockchain in
your network you can make it so that it
is compliant across many different
geographic or political requirements for
example you could say every validator in
your subnet needs to have a license or
maybe they need to fill out certain tax
information avalanche is built to be
able to create and follow rules like
that one last important thing that i
thought i would add is that to validate
your own subnet you are also
contributing to the validation of the
entire network via the primary three
chains now let's get into something fun
because moving on from the
infrastructure let's get into a specific
detail about the network so the main
primary network uses the avalanche
consensus model but ava labs created an
even more powerful consensus model
called the snowman protocol and yes just
to make you understand them let's talk
about the quick difference between the
snowman protocol and the generalized
avalanche protocol because the
difference is quite small however it is
powerful so the snowman protocol is the
linearized version of avalanche so that
it can fit the needs of the ethereum
virtual machine basically snowman
protocol has been optimized for smart
contracts and high throughput on the
other hand avalanche is a more general
use case where it is implemented using a
dag structure which is also seen on the
x chain now like i said at the beginning
a lot of this stuff is really confusing
so i'm trying my best to explain it so
that you can understand it you may need
to watch this video more than once
summing it all up these were a bunch of
technical terms but you just need to
know that the avalanche developers are
really smart and basically optimize
things as best they can for the
situations that they see fit next up
before we make any price prediction or
let you in on some very useful
information let's get into the
tokenomics of the avax coin which powers
the network first off there is a max cap
of coins at 720 million this immediately
makes it a deflationary asset secondly
avex coins can be used as a governance
on the platform meaning the more coins
that you hold and stake you have more
voting rights and you get to make
important decisions in the future of the
network here's the bad news though ava
labs pre-sold 127 million coins when
they launched and many of those coins
are subject to an unlocking period this
means many investors who bought the coin
at 50 cents may want to lock in some of
their 100x profits and sell immediately
whenever they can now this is bad news
for investors but the good news is that
they aren't dumping all of these coins
at once so here's a picture of their
unlocking schedule and if you're
thinking of investing in avax be mindful
of these dates and how the past dates
have affected price another thing that's
worth noting is that the team and the
foundation were also given around 20 of
all coins finally what you've been
waiting for the good news about avax and
why their price has spiked so much
recently so the avalanche foundation has
announced a 180 million dollar incentive
program to get people to try out their
network this means they are quite
literally giving away 180 million
dollars for free as a form of
advertising this happens all the time in
the defy world and it's not a scam the
incentive program is supposed to bring
two big players to the network curve
finance and ave now curve and ave have
tens of billions of dollars of liquidity
locked up on networks like ethereum and
polygon so it was really smart of the
team to get them to come over to the ava
network when this initially launched we
saw the price of avax spike from 15
to 55 dollars in a few weeks as hungry
investors started bridging their money
over using the avax bridge now we will
never give financial advice on this
channel and we'll probably never do
price predictions but this is a very
bullish signal for anyone interested in
the avax network finally we want to say
thank you guys so much for watching
throughout this video we hope that
you've enjoyed it we really hope that
you've learned something and most of all
you
